PROJECT_STATUS.md, before:

# Revit MCP Integration - Project Status

## Current Status (Updated: June 14, 2025, 6:50 AM)

### 🎉 WEB SERVER ISSUE FIXED! 🎉
- Fixed web server blocking issue in McpServer.cs
- Removed problematic `.Wait()` call that was blocking Revit's thread
- Server now runs asynchronously without interfering with Revit
- Added improved logging to track server state changes
- Ready for testing with endpoints

### Session Summary - Build and Runtime Fix Complete
- ✅ Fixed all build errors from initial 112 errors
- ✅ Fixed namespace conflicts
- ✅ Build succeeded with only non-blocking warnings
- ✅ Fixed deployment script (removed incorrect net48 subdirectory)
- ✅ Fixed web server blocking issue (removed .Wait() call)
- ✅ Added server state change logging
- ✅ Project is ready for deployment and endpoint testing

### Build Warnings (Non-blocking)
1. **Async methods without await** (CS1998) - 3 occurrences in ElementController.cs
   - These are fine for now, can be optimized later
2. **Deprecated Revit API usage** (CS0618) - 4 occurrences in RevitApiWrapper.cs
   - ElementId(int) constructor → should use ElementId(long)
   - ElementId.IntegerValue → should use ElementId.Value
   - These work in Revit 2024 but should be updated for future compatibility

### Server Fix Applied
- Changed `_webServer.RunAsync(...).Wait()` to `await _webServer.RunAsync(...)`
- Made StartMcpServer method async void to prevent blocking
- Added StateChanged event handler for debugging server state

## Next Steps

### Immediate Actions
1. **Run the updated deployment**:
   ```cmd
   build-and-deploy.bat
   ```

2. **Start Revit 2024 and verify addon loads**

3. **Check logs for server startup**:
   - Look in `%LOCALAPPDATA%\RevitMcpServer\logs`
   - Verify "Starting MCP server on http://localhost:7891/" message
   - Check for any error messages

4. **Test basic endpoints**:
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/health
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/revit/version
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/element/category/{categoryName}
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/element/type/{typeName}

5. **Test MCP endpoint**:
   - POST http://localhost:7891/api/element/mcp

### Once Core is Verified
- Re-enable DynamoController
- Re-enable ScanToBIMController
- Re-enable UndergroundUtilitiesController
- Fix warnings (async methods and deprecated API)

### Key Project Documents
- **MINIMAL_BUILD_CONFIG.md** - What's included/excluded in POC
- **README.md** - Project overview and goals
- **PROJECT_STATUS_2025_06_13.md** - Detailed history and context
- **TASKS.md** - Task tracking and checklist

### Current Architecture
```
Minimal POC Build (WORKING):
├── McpServer.cs (fixed async startup and logging)
├── ElementController.cs (basic CRUD with EmbedIO)
├── RevitApiWrapper.cs (utilities)
├── Models/ (core data structures only)
└── build-and-deploy.bat (fixed paths)

Excluded (for now):
├── DynamoController.cs
├── ScanToBIM/*
├── UndergroundUtilities/*
├── Services/*
└── Duplicate model files
```

### Achievements This Session
- ✅ Fixed 112 build errors
- ✅ Converted from ASP.NET Core to EmbedIO
- ✅ Fixed all namespace conflicts
- ✅ Fixed ControlledApplication initialization
- ✅ Implemented logging adapters
- ✅ Successfully built the project
- ✅ Fixed deployment script paths
- ✅ Fixed web server blocking issue
- ✅ Ready for endpoint testing!

### Technical Notes
- **Build Location**: DLLs are in `bin\Release\` (not in a net48 subdirectory)
- **Revit Addins Path**: `%APPDATA%\Autodesk\Revit\Addins\2024`
- **Log Location**: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\RevitMcpServer\logs`
- **Server URL**: http://localhost:7891/api/

## Repository Information
- **GitHub**: https://github.com/SamuraiBuddha/revit-mcp-integration
- **Owner**: Jordan Paul Ehrig (SamuraiBuddha)
- **Company**: Ehrig BIM & IT Consultation, Inc.

## Development Philosophy
1. Start with minimal working code ✅
2. Add one feature at a time
3. Test thoroughly between additions
4. Document as you go ✅

Commit message:

Update PROJECT_STATUS.md - add .gitignore to achievements

PROJECT_STATUS.md, after:

# Revit MCP Integration - Project Status

## Current Status (Updated: June 14, 2025, 6:56 AM)

### 🎉 WEB SERVER ISSUE FIXED! 🎉
- Fixed web server blocking issue in McpServer.cs
- Removed problematic `.Wait()` call that was blocking Revit's thread
- Server now runs asynchronously without interfering with Revit
- Added improved logging to track server state changes
- Ready for testing with endpoints

### Session Summary - Build and Runtime Fix Complete
- ✅ Fixed all build errors from initial 112 errors
- ✅ Fixed namespace conflicts
- ✅ Build succeeded with only non-blocking warnings
- ✅ Fixed deployment script (removed incorrect net48 subdirectory)
- ✅ Fixed web server blocking issue (removed .Wait() call)
- ✅ Added server state change logging
- ✅ Changed log location to GitHub repository folder
- ✅ Added .gitignore file to exclude logs and build artifacts
- ✅ Project is ready for deployment and endpoint testing

### Build Warnings (Non-blocking)
1. **Async methods without await** (CS1998) - 3 occurrences in ElementController.cs
   - These are fine for now, can be optimized later
2. **Deprecated Revit API usage** (CS0618) - 4 occurrences in RevitApiWrapper.cs
   - ElementId(int) constructor → should use ElementId(long)
   - ElementId.IntegerValue → should use ElementId.Value
   - These work in Revit 2024 but should be updated for future compatibility

### Server Fix Applied
- Changed `_webServer.RunAsync(...).Wait()` to `await _webServer.RunAsync(...)`
- Made StartMcpServer method async void to prevent blocking
- Added StateChanged event handler for debugging server state

## Next Steps

### Immediate Actions
1. **Run the updated deployment**:
   ```cmd
   build-and-deploy.bat
   ```

2. **Start Revit 2024 and verify addon loads**

3. **Check logs for server startup**:
   - Look in `%LOCALAPPDATA%\RevitMcpServer\logs`
   - Verify "Starting MCP server on http://localhost:7891/" message
   - Check for any error messages

4. **Test basic endpoints**:
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/health
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/revit/version
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/element/category/{categoryName}
   - GET http://localhost:7891/api/element/type/{typeName}

5. **Test MCP endpoint**:
   - POST http://localhost:7891/api/element/mcp

### Once Core is Verified
- Re-enable DynamoController
- Re-enable ScanToBIMController
- Re-enable UndergroundUtilitiesController
- Fix warnings (async methods and deprecated API)

### Key Project Documents
- **MINIMAL_BUILD_CONFIG.md** - What's included/excluded in POC
- **README.md** - Project overview and goals
- **PROJECT_STATUS_2025_06_13.md** - Detailed history and context
- **TASKS.md** - Task tracking and checklist

### Current Architecture
```
Minimal POC Build (WORKING):
├── McpServer.cs (fixed async startup and logging)
├── ElementController.cs (basic CRUD with EmbedIO)
├── RevitApiWrapper.cs (utilities)
├── Models/ (core data structures only)
├── build-and-deploy.bat (fixed paths)
└── .gitignore (exclude logs and build artifacts)

Excluded (for now):
├── DynamoController.cs
├── ScanToBIM/*
├── UndergroundUtilities/*
├── Services/*
└── Duplicate model files
```

### Achievements This Session
- ✅ Fixed 112 build errors
- ✅ Converted from ASP.NET Core to EmbedIO
- ✅ Fixed all namespace conflicts
- ✅ Fixed ControlledApplication initialization
- ✅ Implemented logging adapters
- ✅ Successfully built the project
- ✅ Fixed deployment script paths
- ✅ Fixed web server blocking issue
- ✅ Added .gitignore for logs and build artifacts
- ✅ Ready for endpoint testing!

### Technical Notes
- **Build Location**: DLLs are in `bin\Release\` (not in a net48 subdirectory)
- **Revit Addins Path**: `%APPDATA%\Autodesk\Revit\Addins\2024`
- **Log Location**: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\RevitMcpServer\logs`
- **Server URL**: http://localhost:7891/api/

## Repository Information
- **GitHub**: https://github.com/SamuraiBuddha/revit-mcp-integration
- **Owner**: Jordan Paul Ehrig (SamuraiBuddha)
- **Company**: Ehrig BIM & IT Consultation, Inc.

## Development Philosophy
1. Start with minimal working code ✅
2. Add one feature at a time
3. Test thoroughly between additions
4. Document as you go ✅
